Farmbase is a Java & MySQL-based application which gives an idea to the farmers how to use e-farming for improving output. This project is designed to help the field of agriculture. The main objective of this application is to inform farmers about their available resources like the quantity of seeds to be bought, loans, chemicals, warehouses to store the products, shops and markets to sell their goods and other similar items needed for agriculture. It also includes information on suitable crops, available workers, available transportation, farming machinery, contact info of agricultural advisor allocated to that area, possible plant diseases and its solutions like the quantity of pesticides to be sprayed. This can be further developed by directly connecting common people to farmers through this app thereby increasing the profit to farmers and also by providing videos to teach the best methods to increase the productivity. 
This is a java JSwing application connected to database hosted in a server so that both admin and user can view and update the same data. As this application is to help farmers in terms of productivity and not for selling the products, it does not include online marketing. Government sector gets various types of advantages with the association of this type of database management system. The data about the production and productivity of different types of crops and farmers who grow them can be easily maintained through this database management system. Government can directly buy goods from farmers for reasonable prices, provide them with supplies they require and give loans with low interests as an encouragement.  It also includes the following statistics: 
1.Area Statistics-Area of crops, Irrigation Particulars of crops. 
2.Production statistics- Production and productivity of crop.           
3.Land use Statistics- Land Utilization pattern. 
 
 
